[istio] Add ambient mesh documentation (#21084)
deckhouse/deckhouse: modules/110-istio/docs/EXAMPLES.md

  metadataEndpoint: https://istio.k8s-a.example.com/metadata/
```

## Ambient mesh

> {% alert level="warning" %}Available in Enterprise Edition and Certified Security Edition Pro only.{% endalert %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% alert level="warning" %}Available in Enterprise Edition only.{% endalert %}
```

{% alert level="warning" %}Ambient mesh support is experimental and not recommended for production use.{% endalert %}

> See the [ambient mesh overview](./#ambient-mesh) for the concepts (`ztunnel`, waypoint proxies) referenced below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ambient mesh components mentioned in this section are described on the [module overview page](./#ambient-mesh).
```

### Enabling ambient mesh

> Ambient mode requires the [`CNIPlugin`](#cniplugin-application-traffic-redirection-mode-restrictions) traffic redirection mode and Istio 1.25 or newer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ambient mode requires the [`CNIPlugin`](#cniplugin-application-traffic-redirection-mode-restrictions) traffic redirection mode and Istio 1.25 or newer.

The following is a module configuration example with the ambient mode enabled:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: ModuleConfig
metadata:
  name: istio
spec:
  enabled: true
  version: 2
  settings:
    dataPlane:
      trafficRedirectionSetupMode: CNIPlugin
    ambient:
      enabled: true
```

Once enabled, the module runs the `ztunnel` DaemonSet and the waypoint controller. To enroll workloads into the ambient mesh, follow the steps below.

### Enrolling workloads into the ambient (L4) mesh

> Add the `istio.io/dataplane-mode=ambient` label to a namespace to capture the traffic of its Pods with `ztunnel`. This provides L4 features (mutual TLS, identity, L4 authorization) without a sidecar:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the `istio.io/dataplane-mode=ambient` label to a namespace to capture the traffic of its pods with `ztunnel`. This provides L4 features (mutual TLS, identity, L4 authorization) without a sidecar:
```

```shell
d8 k label namespace myns istio.io/dataplane-mode=ambient
```

### Adding a waypoint for L7 features

> To get L7 features (HTTP routing, L7 authorization, richer telemetry), create a `WaypointInstance` in the namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get L7 features (HTTP routing, L7 authorization, richer telemetry), create a [WaypointInstance](cr.html#waypointinstance) resource in the namespace:

The following is a WaypointInstance resource example, which creates a waypoint for all workloads and services in a namespace:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: network.deckhouse.io/v1alpha1
kind: WaypointInstance
metadata:
  name: main
  namespace: myns
spec:
  waypointFor: All
  replicasManagement:
    mode: Static
    static:
      replicas: 2
  resourcesManagement:
    mode: VPA
    vpa:
      mode: InPlaceOrRecreate
      cpu:
        min: 100m
        max: 1000m
      memory:
        min: 128Mi
        max: 2000Mi
```

The controller provisions the waypoint infrastructure (Deployment, Service, Gateway, VPA, and — when the effective replica count is `>= 2` — a PDB). The controller does **not** attach workloads to the waypoint; do that with the `istio.io/use-waypoint` label.

> Attach all workloads and services in the namespace to the waypoint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The controller provisions the waypoint infrastructure (Deployment, Service, Gateway, VPA, and a PDB — when the effective replica count is `>= 2`). The controller **does not** attach workloads to the waypoint. You can do that with the `istio.io/use-waypoint` label.

To attach all workloads and services in the namespace to the waypoint, run the following command:
```

```shell
d8 k label namespace myns istio.io/use-waypoint=main
```

> Or attach a single service or workload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To attach a single service or workload, run the following command:
```

```shell
d8 k -n myns label service myservice istio.io/use-waypoint=main
```

### Disabling ambient mesh

{% alert level="warning" %}

> Before disabling ambient mode, delete all `WaypointInstance` resources. With ambient mode disabled, the waypoint controller is not running and cannot reconcile or clean up waypoint resources, which leaves orphaned waypoints (Deckhouse Kubernetes Platform (DKP) raises the `D8IstioActiveWaypointsWithAmbientDisabled` alert in that case).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before disabling ambient mode, delete all WaypointInstance resources. With ambient mode disabled, the waypoint controller is not running and cannot reconcile or clean up waypoint resources. This leaves orphaned waypoints, which are reported by DKP in the [`D8IstioActiveWaypointsWithAmbientDisabled`](/products/kubernetes-platform/documentation/v1/reference/alerts.html#istio-d8istioactivewaypointswithambientdisabled) alert.
```

{% endalert %}

```shell
d8 k get waypointinstance -A
d8 k -n myns delete waypointinstance main
```

> Then set `ambient.enabled` back to `false` in the `istio` ModuleConfig.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
To disable the ambient mode, foow these steps:

1. Check if any WaypointInstance resources remain and delete them as necessary using the following commands:

   ```shell
   d8 k get waypointinstance -A
   d8 k -n myns delete waypointinstance main
   ```

1. Disable the ambient mode by setting [`ambient.enabled`](configuration.html#parameters-ambient-enabled) to `false` in the module configuration.
````

Author: Fixed using 1-2 numbering, not sure if it's ok: https://github.com/deckhouse/deckhouse/pull/21084/changes/696c2307cf3f0d9f50981ba8c240e89b42c2af8a
